Extend JSON function docs (#17758)
pingcap/docs: functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-validate.md

---
title: JSON Functions that validate JSON documents
summary: Learn about JSON functions that validate JSON documents.
---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

# JSON Functions That Validate JSON Documents

This document describes JSON functions that validate JSON documents.

```

| `format`               | `string` | Test if a string matches a named format |
| `pattern`              | `string` | Test if a string matches a pattern |
| `items`                | `array` | Schema to apply to the items of an array |
| `prefixItems`          | `array` | Schema to apply to positional items of an array |
| `maxItems`             | `array` | Test if the number of items in the array is not exceeding the specified value |
| `minItems`             | `array` | Test if the number of items in the array is at least the specified value |
| `uniqueItems`          | `array` | Test if the items in the array are unique, `true`/`false`|
| `contains`             | `array` | Set schema for items contained in the array |
| `maxContains`          | `array` | Used together with `contains` to set how many times something can be present |
| `minContains`          | `array` | Used together with `contains` to set how many times something can be present |
| `properties`           | `object` | Schema to apply to the properties of an object |
| `patternProperties`    | `object` | Schema to apply to certain properties based on pattern matching of the property name |

> | `additionalProperties` | `object` | If additional properties are allowed or not, `true`/`false` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `additionalProperties` | `object` | Whether additional properties are allowed or not, `true`/`false` |
```

| `minProperties`        | `object` | Test the number of properties that the object has |
| `maxProperties`        | `object` | Test the number of properties that the object has|
| `required`             | `object` | The property names that are required |

Examples:

> For some of the examples we will use this JSON document:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For some of the examples, use this JSON document:
```

```json
{
    "fruits": [
        "orange",
        "apple",
        "pear"
    ],
    "vegetables": [
        "carrot",
        "pepper",
        "kale"]
}
```

> We will use a [user defined variable](/user-defined-variables.md) to hold the JSON document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use a [user defined variable](/user-defined-variables.md) to hold the JSON document.
```

```sql
SET @j := '{"fruits": ["orange", "apple", "pear"], "vegetables": ["carrot", "pepper", "kale"]}';
```

> Let's start by testing the type::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start by testing the type::
```

```sql
SELECT JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"type": "object"}',@j);
```

```
+--------------------------------------------+
| JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"type": "object"}',@j) |
+--------------------------------------------+
|                                          1 |
+--------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

```sql
SELECT JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"type": "array"}',@j);
```

```
+-------------------------------------------+
| JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"type": "array"}',@j) |
+-------------------------------------------+
|                                         0 |
+-------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

```sql
mysql> SELECT JSON_TYPE(@j);
```

```
+---------------+
| JSON_TYPE(@j) |
+---------------+
| OBJECT        |
+---------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

> As you can see in the output above, the type is `object`. This matches with the output of [`JSON_TYPE()`](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-return.md#json_type).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see in the preceding output, the type is `object`. This matches with the output of [`JSON_TYPE()`](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-return.md#json_type).
```

> Now let's validate the presence of certain attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now validate the presence of certain attributes.
```

```sql
SELECT JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"required": ["fruits","vegetables"]}',@j);
```

```
+---------------------------------------------------------------+
| JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"required": ["fruits","vegetables"]}',@j) |
+---------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                             1 |
+---------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

> In the output above you can see that see that validation of the presence of the `fruits` and `vegetables` attributes succeeded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the preceding output, you can see that see that validation of the presence of the `fruits` and `vegetables` attributes succeeds.
```

```sql
SELECT JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"required": ["fruits","vegetables","grains"]}',@j);
```

```
+------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"required": ["fruits","vegetables","grains"]}',@j) |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                                      0 |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

> In the output above you can see that see that validation of the presence of the `fruits`, `vegetables` and `grains` attributes failed as the latter isn't present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the preceding output, you can see that see that validation of the presence of the `fruits`, `vegetables` and `grains` attributes fails because the latter is not present.
```

> Now let's validate that `fruits` is an array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now validate that `fruits` is an array.
```

```sql
SELECT JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"properties": {"fruits": {"type": "array"}}}',@j);
```

```
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"properties": {"fruits": {"type": "array"}}}',@j) |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                                     1 |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.01 sec)
```

> The output above confirms that `fruits` is an array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preceding output confirms that `fruits` is an array.
```

```sql
SELECT JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"properties": {"fruits": {"type": "string"}}}',@j);
```

```
+------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"properties": {"fruits": {"type": "string"}}}',@j) |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                                      0 |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

> The output above tells us that `fruits` is **not** a string.
> 
> Now let's also verify the number of items in the array

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preceding output shows that `fruits` is **not** a string.

Now verify the number of items in the array
```

```sql
SELECT JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"properties": {"fruits": {"type": "array", "minItems": 3}}}',@j);
```

```
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"properties": {"fruits": {"type": "array", "minItems": 3}}}',@j) |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                                                    1 |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

> The output above tells us that `fruits` is an array with at least 3 items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preceding output shows that `fruits` is an array with at least 3 items.
```

```sql
SELECT JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"properties": {"fruits": {"type": "array", "minItems": 4}}}',@j);
```

```
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"properties": {"fruits": {"type": "array", "minItems": 4}}}',@j) |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                                                    0 |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

> The output above tells us that `fruits` is **not** an array with at least 4 items. This is because it doesn't meet the minimum number of items.
> 
> For integers values we can check if they are in a certain range.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preceding output shows that `fruits` is **not** an array with at least 4 items. This is because it does not meet the minimum number of items.

For integers values, you can check if they are in a certain range.
```

```sql
SELECT JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"type": "integer", "minimum": 40, "maximum": 45}', '42');
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"type": "integer", "minimum": 40, "maximum": 45}', '42') |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                                            1 |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.01 sec)
```

```sql
SELECT JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"type": "integer", "minimum": 40, "maximum": 45}', '123');
```

```
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"type": "integer", "minimum": 40, "maximum": 45}', '123') |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                                             0 |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

> For strings we can do pattern matching.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For strings, you can do pattern matching.
```

|                                                                      0 |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

There are also a few named formats available that can be used to check a value. Other available formats include `ipv6`, `time`, `date`, `duration`, `email`, `hostname`, `uuid` and `uri`.

```sql
SELECT JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"format": "ipv4"}', '"127.0.0.1"');
```

```
+--------------------------------------------------------+
| JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"format": "ipv4"}', '"127.0.0.1"') |
+--------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                      1 |
+--------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

```sql
SELECT JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"format": "ipv4"}', '"327.0.0.1"');
```

```
+--------------------------------------------------------+
| JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"format": "ipv4"}', '"327.0.0.1"') |
+--------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                      0 |
+--------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

> Another thing we can do is to use `enum` to check a string is in an array of values. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use `enum` to check if a string is in an array of values. 
```

---

> title: JSON Functions that validate JSON documents

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: JSON Functions That Validate JSON Documents
```

This is following the [JSON Schema specification](https://json-schema.org/specification).

Validation keywords:

| Validation Keyword | Applies to | Description |
|---|---|---|
| `type`                 | Any | Tests the type (e.g. `array`,`string`, etc) |
| `enum`                 | Any | Tests if a value is in the specified array of values |
| `const`                | Any | Similar to `enum`, but for a single value |
| `allOf`                | Any | Match all of the specified schemas |
| `anyOf`                | Any | Match any of the specified schemas |
| `multipleOf`           | `number`/`integer` | Tests if the value is a multiple of the specified value |
| `maximum`              | `number`/`integer` | Tests if the value is below the maximum (inclusive) |
| `exclusiveMaximum`     | `number`/`integer` | Tests if the value is below the maximum (exclusive) |
| `minimum`              | `number`/`integer` | Tests if the value is above the minimum (inclusive) |
| `exclusiveMinimum`     | `number`/`integer` | Tests if the value is above the minimum (exclusive) |

> | `maxlength`            | `string` | Test if the length of the value is not exceeding the specified value |
> | `minLength`            | `string` | Test if the length of the value is at least the specified value |
> | `format`               | `string` | Test if a string matches a named format |
> | `pattern`              | `string` | Test if a string matches a pattern |
> | `items`                | `array` | Schema to apply to the items of an array |
> | `prefixItems`          | `array` | Schema to apply to positional items of an array |
> | `maxItems`             | `array` | Test if the number of items in the array is not exceeding the specified value |
> | `minItems`             | `array` | Test if the number of items in the array is at least the specified value |
> | `uniqueItems`          | `array` | Test if the items in the array are unique, `true`/`false`|
> | `contains`             | `array` | Set schema for items contained in the array |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `maxlength`            | `string` | Tests if the length of the value is not exceeding the specified value |
| `minLength`            | `string` | Tests if the length of the value is at least the specified value |
| `format`               | `string` | Tests if a string matches a named format |
| `pattern`              | `string` | Tests if a string matches a pattern |
| `items`                | `array` | Schema to apply to the items of an array |
| `prefixItems`          | `array` | Schema to apply to positional items of an array |
| `maxItems`             | `array` | Tests if the number of items in the array is not exceeding the specified value |
| `minItems`             | `array` | Tests if the number of items in the array is at least the specified value |
| `uniqueItems`          | `array` | Tests if the items in the array are unique, `true`/`false`|
| `contains`             | `array` | Sets schema for items contained in the array |
```

> | `maxContains`          | `array` | Used together with `contains` to set how many times something can be present |
> | `minContains`          | `array` | Used together with `contains` to set how many times something can be present |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `maxContains`          | `array` | Used together with `contains` to set the maximum times something can be present |
| `minContains`          | `array` | Used together with `contains` to set the minimum times something can be present |
```

| `properties`           | `object` | Schema to apply to the properties of an object |
| `patternProperties`    | `object` | Schema to apply to certain properties based on pattern matching of the property name |
| `additionalProperties` | `object` | Whether additional properties are allowed or not, `true`/`false` |

> | `minProperties`        | `object` | Test the number of properties that the object has |
> | `maxProperties`        | `object` | Test the number of properties that the object has|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `minProperties`        | `object` | Test the minimum number of properties that the object has |
| `maxProperties`        | `object` | Test the maximum number of properties that the object has |
```

| `required`             | `object` | The property names that are required |

Examples:

For some of the examples, use this JSON document:

```json
{
    "fruits": [
        "orange",
        "apple",
        "pear"
    ],
    "vegetables": [
        "carrot",
        "pepper",
        "kale"]
}
```

Use a [user defined variable](/user-defined-variables.md) to hold the JSON document.

```sql
SET @j := '{"fruits": ["orange", "apple", "pear"], "vegetables": ["carrot", "pepper", "kale"]}';
```

> Start by testing the type::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start by testing the type:
```

---
title: JSON Functions that validate JSON documents
summary: Learn about JSON functions that validate JSON documents.
---

> # JSON Functions That Validate JSON Documents
> 
> This document describes JSON functions that validate JSON documents.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: JSON Functions That Validate JSON Documents
summary: Learn about JSON functions that validate JSON documents.
---

# JSON Functions That Validate JSON Documents

This document describes JSON functions that validate JSON documents.

## [JSON_SCHEMA_VALID()](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/json-validation-functions.html#function_json-schema-valid)

The `JSON_SCHEMA_VALID(schema, json_doc)` function validate a JSON document against a schema to ensure data integrity and consistency.

This can be used together with a [CHECK](/constraints.md#check) constraint to do automatic schema validation when a table is modified.

This is following the [JSON Schema specification](https://json-schema.org/specification).

Validation keywords:

| Validation Keyword | Applies to | Description |
|---|---|---|
| `type`                 | Any | Tests the type (e.g. `array`,`string`, etc) |
| `enum`                 | Any | Tests if a value is in the specified array of values |
| `const`                | Any | Similar to `enum`, but for a single value |

> | `allOf`                | Any | Match all of the specified schemas |
> | `anyOf`                | Any | Match any of the specified schemas |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `allOf`                | Any | Matches all of the specified schemas |
| `anyOf`                | Any | Matches any of the specified schemas |
```

| JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"enum": ["TiDB", "MySQL"]}', '"TiDB"') |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                          1 |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

```sql
SELECT JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"enum": ["TiDB", "MySQL"]}', '"MySQL"');
```

```
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
| JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"enum": ["TiDB", "MySQL"]}', '"MySQL"') |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                           1 |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

```sql
SELECT JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"enum": ["TiDB", "MySQL"]}', '"SQLite"');
```

```
+--------------------------------------------------------------+
| JSON_SCHEMA_VALID('{"enum": ["TiDB", "MySQL"]}', '"SQLite"') |
+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                            0 |
+--------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

> With `anyOf` it is possible to combine certain requirements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With `anyOf`, you can combine certain requirements and validate whether any of the requirements is met.
```
